Hello again.
Delightful God people in this video were going to make computers and make them use combinations.
And when I say we're going to make computers we're doing it in-game.
I'm not coming around to your house to build you a new policy.
All right.
So what needs to happen with these computers.
Well I want the player to be in range to use the computer.
Just like we did with doors and focus a lot of similarity here.
You need to be with in a certain range to use the computer.
You can't just click on it from across the screen.
The computer is going to request a combination from that new combination generate a note from it and
that computer is going to then display the combination to the player and then transmit the combination
to relater locked doors.
Now that last bit we're not doing in this video which going to grab a random combination and show it
to the player.
So let's get started.
First thing we need to do as you might expect is make a brand new scenes.
Let's make a new scene.
My parents give me an area hoodie
and I call this computer.
Let's give it a sprite So we know we're looking at an under graphics and PRNG tiles right down the bottom.
You'll see these two monitors.
I'm going to use this second one tile 5 3 7 because I feel like tar 5 3 6 is about 30.
So that's a nice flat screen watch that's going to be a computer.
Great.
And I'm actually going to rotate this by 90 degrees because this right has been forward for everything
else.
So let's keep that you know nice and consistent.
Give me the computer an area to D.
Because we actually want it to work when the player is in.
Rachel It's make a collision shape.
Gleision shape to and I make a new rectangle shape.
Now remember this is an area to d not a physics body this collision shape is going to tack when people
enter or exit it.
Not going to stop people from entering next day.
Let me get my Some big I'm not going to centre on the computer and actually move it over this way.
So if the player is anywhere in this region it big they can use the computer.
Let's stop guessing at numbers and let's see I can make it at 32 on the X and zero on the Y.
And the extant is going to be 32 across all extend a little bit.
Now let's make it 48 across.
Great.
The reason I wanted this wide is there's going to be a desk here too.
So I want the player to have enough room 10 doesn't feel big enough so let's make it 64.
Hi Robert a bit too high.
Forty eight 32.
OK.
The plan needs to enter this area.
I also feel like when a player uses the computer that should be a little light that comes on I feel
like there's gonna be a fun little tricks so let's under a computer make a light too deep.
Then the like map and I'm going to use one of these to see the 599 or four six foot.
Let's go with 590.
And now I need to actually make sure that this light map is in the right place.
So to do that I'm going to transform it by 90 degrees.
It's face the right direction.
And then offset it by 32 a writer rotated it didn't.
So it's gone be zero on the X area and on the Y 32 maybe.
Let's take a look at that.
How's that textualist up.
Probably minus 30 to them.
Yes that's very great.
Now what I did there was a highlighted the note the like to denote so I could see exactly where that
offset is.
All right.
So now we have this lovely light coming in.
We have a couple more things.
First off I need to connect to this collision shape to a script so let's give computer a script actually
before we do that let's save the computer so into scenes computer save great let's give computer a script
and just like get real time to put it in the scripts folder.
There it is.
Let's give it a ready function so function ready.
And I'm going to go dollar light to deal with that the today and go.
Enabled Eagles false.
So that moment you start switch the light off.
I also might change the colour a bit so let's make it a nice electronic Blue's thing.
There we go.
What I'm not gonna do is give this monitor an occlusion.
I'm not giving it light occlusion because it's going to be on a desk and I will give the desk what occlusions.
That's not going to work just to see what that looks like.
I'm going to incense that in to a desk.
And you know I'm on a make a desk so I can go play with it so it's make a nice piece of furniture and
pick a nice glass or wooden desk.
What do you think.
I'm thinking a wooden desk and I'm going to instance in a computer performance and sit in.
Let's make the no too deep.
But I mean organize them all by call them computers
and put it right the furniture.
And within that instance in an at will is new computers.
So that's a computer that's the right place.
And rotates.
Make sure everything is in the computer not the node lepidus.
Let's move that at it.
Okay.
What I can't see is where we a walk and to send us unhide the collision shape.
So the player has to be here.
Now I am also in a chair in here.
The office chair the player can still get to the monitor and look it really tight so let's widen the
colours and shape a little further to the extant.
Let's actually not make it 32.
Let's make it 64.
Has that luck and that's often get to me.
All right so country we have a computer.
Let's go into the script and get some more functionality.
Now I know that I'm going to have a few more variables.
I'm going to have a can click.
I know this because we've already solved this problem.
And as can be said to FOSS I also know that we can have a combination.
Which at the moment I dont need to set.
By the end of this video we're going to have a computer that I can click on get a pop up window with
the combinations at the for that to work before we even grab the combination.
Let's make the pop up.
I will take this as another new scene.
In fact you know what let's not make it as a new scene yet.
Let's make it as a child scene and then I'll show you how to make that amusing.
So let's make a child of computer and we've got to make a canvas lair.
Why.
Because I want the window in the centre of the screen.
I don't want it in the centre of the computer.
And as a child of canvas where can you pop up.
Well of course this computer pop up
and to make the new scene I'm going to go save branch as seen and give this brand name computer pop
up there goes in scenes.
There it is.
So let's go to the computer pop up.
If you didn't see what I just did.
I went to the node I want to make a new scene and then I scroll down so I saw make branch you seen it.
Now it's a scene.
Right so we now have a pop up we can make an rabbit pop up will be hidden by default.
Let's start just like we did before with a nine patch texture rectangle.
Now that's rectangle.
I'm going back up to my interface folder.
So graphics interface pge and I'm feeling a nice metal panel buttons of will vanish Well there's one
metal panel.
You'll do drag you over the texture that's come with a better size.
So it's a good size so I want wider and wider on the excellence.
Call you 600.
And how about for 80 let's actually use real sizes.
Saving that now rectangle.
I need you to on the layout to be a full rectangle.
Awesome.
I'm now thinking this isn't the right thing because I don't want those little bolts in it so let's change
metal panel to the other metal panel.
Yeah much better.
Alright patch margin.
How about this.
Twenty one all callers.
That's pretty good.
I like that.
Let's give it an another layer.
This was going to be the actual screen so let's make a child of sent to pop up in another nine patch.
And this was going to be glass panel.
And just like the Lawrence can be full rectangle and then give it 12.
That feels good 12.
And now let's make it look more like a scream.
Going to margin and just giving a margin of 12 in each direction.
Why messing with 12.
I'll be honest.
Not entirely sure.
The 12 the left sort of the top.
How about minus 12 to the right and minus 12 from the bottom.
I think you should do more than that so let's change that for 20.
Okay.
Looking a bit better.
I actually think that's right as well let's make this look much more like a monitor.
And that's sprite's going to be this nice green dot.
Shows and texture and green dot you can live over here.
You probably need to be a bit smaller aren't you.
So let's make you point five by point five.
And it's on display.
One more thing we need I need actual rich text labels so let's put that in.
And same as before what would make it exactly the same size as the second line patch rectangle.
In fact well should do is just copy these parameters.
Copy these parameters.
And paste them right here.
And I now have a rich text level final thing.
Let's go to the root node and give it a theme as load the theme of theme.
Yes because now when I type any text into my rich text label and going to be code so enable my baby
code and I'm going to write test and you can see we've already kept those words okay back into our computer.
How do I make this work.
Well we've got computer pop up right here.
What I need to do is just like you did with the door in fact let's open the door and take a quick look
at the back of the scripts take a look at the door.
We have a function on the door body entered.
It's the player.
Then you can click and if the player leaves phos I'm actually going to get rid of some of these conditions
by making sure that I set my collisions.
Let's go back to the computer and on the computer.
Let's take a look at our collisions.
I'm going take it completely off any layer and it can only interact with the player and that's going
to make that much simpler.
So let's make a signal.
On body entered and connect that to itself.
So on body entered do a thing we also want to do the same thing with one body existed.
And what's going to happen when you enter a can click gl's.
True.
And when you leave it's fossey and
I also want to switch the light back off and it's false.
If you leave the area and the light happens to be on that set it to fog so light to dot enabled people's
false alright on one thing to do.
What happens when you click on it.
Well this can be an input event is less a function inputs event input underscore event memory because
I'm not measuring is there input I'm saying is there input on this object so input.
Okay so I need to make sure that being clicked on and you can be you.
So if input dot is mouse button pressed and which mouse have any read button left there it is.
So if the left mouse button is pressed and can click I don't need to say can click is true because that's
implicit.
Then what do we get to do we're going to do pop up.
We use pop up centred.
Amber also turned the light on.
In fact there is a small thing.
I do need it to actually be part of a layer.
Someone put this on the torain layer So computers are now part of the train.
We can make a new furniture layer later if we want to but that's fine for now.
Okay so what I'm expecting is the place to have to walk into this area.
Click on the computer or let's find out.
Down here sneak past the guard.
Come see me.
Great.
Click on it.
Fantastic.
I make this nice big you can see this nice light right here.
I mean that the way it goes.
Okay so what you need now is for the monitor to disappear when I move out the way.
Back in the script.
When you exit.
I need to make sure that's computer pop up.
Hide.
Okay.
It's all we have now is a computer that'll bring a pop up.
Let's grab the combination and pass that down to the screen.
To do that we're gonna need a function called generate combination or maybe get combination.
Let's see.
Yeah generate combination.
No other combination can be varying lengths.
So let's put a combination length in as an export variable so export variable combination or late.
Some of the default form.
Okay let's take a look at level 1 and explore this scene tree.
What's going to happen is this computer.
Is going to ask combination generator for a combination but to do that it has to find it.
Now previously we've been using the global script to keep an eye on where this thing is.
That's really us working around God.
Instead let's use God knows functionality to find this nut.
Let let's not work around God.
Let's embrace it.
So back into the computer and back into the script.
What I'm going to do is make a variable called combination generator.
And that's going to be get tree and from the tree Let's get root.
So it's going to get to the root of this scene if you're interested what the root of the scene is.
It's the bit just the bulb level one so get root.
And from here let's find a child node with that name.
To do that I'm going to use find load
what's find out find node is a bit like get a..
But it's going by location go by name so you can only find one child node.
But we're going from the root so find the child from this root.
It takes two arguments.
The first argument is recursive.
Are you going to look at children of children or just direct children.
We want to look at children of children.
The second argument is is this old.
In other words do I need to check that you are owned by this node.
In this case that's false.
So to make this work we need to go in the name of the node we're looking for which is a combination
generator.
It didn't actually type of that unlike like me.
Is it recursive.
Yes.
Is it owned by me.
False.
OK.
So now we have that we can go combination equals combination generator.
Combination underscored generator.
And then we can call the function with in combination generator.
So let's go look at that function.
Combination generator.
They are.
You want a real script that's really you.
Combination generator What is it.
Generate combination or length.
You're going to copy that and paste it in here.
But rather than length.
I'm going to put in combination like.
So here's what's going to happen.
We were telling godda.
The combination generator is the node called combination generator somewhere within this tree.
Go find it.
When you found it set our combination to combination generator don't generate combination.
So the function we made in a previous video and we're telling it with this link.
Then we look at coblation generator that function will take that length to generate accommodation and
then return the combination that returned value is going to be set as combination.
So combination will become this return value.
To demonstrate that let's have it actually pop.
Well you know for now let's pretend print combination and just to be very sure there is no print in
here.
So when this if this works it will show up in the output.
Reasons not working.
I didn't call it.
I do like to forget to do that.
OK so let's call generate combination right here.
Let's try that again.
2 0 6 7.
Fantastic.
Now that we have that let's set the pop up text to be that.
So we'll put it right here and generate combination right is going be part of the same function.
In fact you know what let's make a new set pop up text.
So let's make set pop up text.
Function you know small spaces so we could put in the middle spring set pop up text.
Well it's going to do is it's going to call a function within the pop ups solaced go canvass letter
pop up where they are a function called Set Tex.
And I'm in a pass you the combination.
Alright.
Right now this is going to have a major crash because there is no script in the pop up so let's put
one in.
So let's make a new script called Computer pop up.
And as you might expect it goes in the Scripps folder helps repel a fantastic function of set text and
that takes an argument which I'm going to call combination.
Okay so what's this going to do.
Well it's going to grab the rich text label and it's going to take the big hold of that.
And it's going to set it to something.
I was going to sell it to it's going to say something like let's make this some big again.
Will you stop for getting your access code.
I've set it to.
But this is the last time.
Now here's my challenge for you.
I'd like you to have the combination display in the rich text label of computer pop up so we've passed
the combination through can you get that combination to shower quick tip.
We've solved this problem before.
We're bringing in an array of integers.
We need this to be a single string.
So you might have to look back at some of these notes see if you can remember it don't work you can't
but pause the video give that a shot.
And then when you're ready.
Unpause and I'll show you my solution.
And welcome back.
Okay so what I need to do is I need to take a combination.
And pass it through as a string.
So when another plus here pull string array.
And what does the pull string array it's combination.
This is getting a bit big now so women do is to go to the next line and just tab twice.
That's our convention to say this is part of the same line.
OK.
And this all needs to be in brackets doesn't it.
Let's put some brackets.
Let's join them.
We're going to use our empty string so the delineator is going to be empty.
So now.
When we go to the computer and we sneak behind this guard and around this light excuse me like will
you stop forgetting access code.
I've set it to three three to seven.
This is the last time.
Now we can put in some marginson things.
Give the text a bit more space.
But already this is key functionality that's already in there.
So in this video we've looked at how do you find node to get a node by name anywhere within the tree.
If we were to extend this into a very large complicated scene that's going to be inefficient but for
our purposes that's fantastic.
We've also used a return value from another function in this script.
Look at that.
We have randomly generated codes that can be put into a computer and then sent out to lock doors.
Excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.